hello hello
um sorry i'm a little nervous
yep so you're like what else
yeah so how do you deal with on
ironically being dead inside
due to a long time of suppressing
emotions
uh so how how do you manage having
suppressed emotions for a very long time
yeah and i feel kind of dead inside like
i do i don't even feel alive
i can't even feel any emotions
do you feel any emotions like
let's say i'm playing a game and and
sometimes i can get
frustrated and things like that but not
like
i don't know i don't know how to explain
it i just
i i don't know take your time
um i can feel like
um the
edge of an emotion if that makes sense
like
i can't feel like hate or love
or like happy or maybe sometimes sadness
but it's like
it's not like
sorry yeah no i i think you're doing
great and what what am i calling you
friend
you can call me rkm or my name is raven
if you can't pronounce that sure yeah so
ravi i think um so what i'm hearing you
say is that you kind of
feel the edge of emotion but you don't
really feel emotions
exactly yeah okay so i think you did a
very good job of explaining what do you
think
i don't think so okay fair enough
so i understood what you were trying to
say right yeah
okay anyway so so rabbit how long have
you felt
dead inside like
uh i was depressed when i was like
13 or 14 around that age
and probably ever since that and
how old are you now i'm 19 20
20. have you had treatment for
depression
no
okay would you say that between like 13
and now
you've had you felt about the same level
of debt inside
are there periods of time where you feel
like better for a little while and then
you go back to feeling dead inside
um
[Music]
probably that i feel better sometimes
okay and um can you help me understand a
little bit about
uh why you haven't gotten treatment for
depression
well i went to a psychologist once and
they didn't really understand me
so so they just said like
you don't have depression like go home
or something i don't know
so did they did they offer to see you
again
or they said i'm not going to see you
because you don't need to be here
it was kind of like an appointment to
assess
if i have depression or not that person
didn't think i had it
i see so who was gonna add to that and
and how long ago did you see this person
um it was kind of it was when i was like
15.
okay so here's my first thought
robin okay so you may have depression
and if you have depression there are
treatments for depression
and i think it's worth seeing someone
again
right because i have depression actually
what do you think you have
i don't know what i have i don't feel
anything
sure so so i think that's fair you may
have depression you may not have
depression you may think you don't have
depression
i completely agree i don't know if you
have depression or you don't have
depression
what i'm saying is that when we think
about fixing a problem like this
there's a chance you have depression and
so the right thing to do
is to at least we need to know whether
you do or you don't
right does that make sense
yeah so i'm not saying that this is the
end of my recommendation
but i think a useful piece of this
puzzle
is going to be getting evaluated by a
mental health professional
and the story that when you were 15 and
the story when you're 19 are different
stories
does that make sense like if you're a 15
year old and you go see a psychologist
once and they ask you about your
feelings and stuff
like at 15 you don't even know what you
feel and you've been feeling this way
maybe for about a year right but you
don't even know how to articulate
like you don't know how to say what you
feel when you're 15 years old
that's a very different story from when
i turned 13 or 14 i started feeling
depressed and i haven't really felt
emotions for the last six years
it's a completely different story
yeah and so just because someone
met you once and didn't think you were
depressed when you were 15
doesn't mean that that person was
correct or even that
even if they were correct in that day
the story back then and the story now is
like very different does that make sense
yeah i get time to get that right so
that's a really important like
clinical piece to understand is that if
you guys have been evaluated for
something
at some random time in the past and you
guys like
got even like it's not even it may have
been possible that
someone diagnosed you with depression
and now you don't have depression like
it
there are all kinds of mistakes that can
be made in the diagnostic process
and ravid i think you should get an
evaluation i'm not going to end there
i'm going to talk to you about i think
the more the answer that you're looking
for
but i think this is the kind of thing
where like i would feel stupid if i like
we just talked about feelings and
meditation and things like that
and you actually like had clinical
depression and like you just didn't get
treatment for it because that would be
like that would be dumb
does that make sense like we're going to
do the dr k like
understand yourself and like learn how
to feel your emotions
we're gonna do all that i'm gonna give
you all that but like at the end of the
day
it's important to be like very like
careful
and treat yourself with the respect that
you deserve
which is giving yourself every
opportunity to like get better
and overcome this problem and one of
those
one of those instruments or one of those
tools you can use is a clinical
evaluation
for some kind of depression does that
make sense
yes okay on to the dr k stuff okay
so so it sounds to me like you're alexa
thymic
have you heard us talk okay
so what's your understanding of how we
approach alexa thymia
i don't know how you approach it but i
know what it is
you you do know what it is yes
and what what's your understanding of
what alexa thyme is
you can't really explain how you feel
i guess yep yeah so i i would describe
alexa thymia
is like being unable to
feel like understand or feel
emotions so it's like you can't describe
how you feel it's sort of like you're
colorblind to emotions
and so lexithymia like do you play a lot
of video games robin
yeah for sure how how many hours a day
would you say you play
well maybe five okay
and how do you spend the rest of your
day
uh youtube twitch
dr k wasting time you know
yeah so i think this is the kind of
thing where like you literally like if
you play games and are like consuming
youtube
you know for most of your day those
those things are going to suppress your
emotional circuitry
in your brain so there are these things
called
fmri studies so f stands for functional
magnetic resonance imaging which is a
study that looks at blood flow
to the brain and what we discover from
fmri studies
is that when you play video games and do
this kind of mindless stuff like watch
youtube and things like that
what they do is they actually reduce the
blood flow to the parts of your brain
that experience emotion
and so you're kind of like you get you
activate this like dopamine circuitry
and shut down your emotional circuitry
which is why games feel so good and that
we use them as a coping mechanism
anything that we use as a coping
mechanism reduces
our negative like our ability to
experience
negative emotions so like earlier today
i had something stressful happen
and like i pulled up valheim for like 15
or 20 minutes
and it made me feel better because like
you kind of forget and then like all
those negative emotions like
go away for a little bit and so i think
this is where we've got to really
approach this
kind of in a from a couple of different
angles one is that
as long as you're basically like playing
games at this
rate it's going to be difficult for you
to feel emotions because you're going to
be shutting off
you're going to be reducing blood flow
to the part of your brain that like can
experience emotion
and and so you know this is where we've
got to think a little bit about how you
can do
other stuff so the next thing is that
that any questions about that i mean i
that's kind of complicated but i was
going to lay out two or three other
things
i wanted to add that like
i think i also use like
orgasm to do the same thing yep yeah so
people do that right so
if you look if you look at people like
we have we've had a couple of porn
addiction streams
which you should check out on on youtube
but like so
so orgasm and like pornography and
things like that are also other ways to
like
suppress emotions yeah
and so you know robin you've got a
couple of other options going forward
the first
is that if you want to get in touch with
your emotions
like you have to cut back on some of
these things if you can't cut back on
those
that's okay there are other things you
can do so the next is that like
you can intentionally activate that
emotional circuitry
so this is what things like therapy or
we do this in coaching too
where like our coaches work a lot with
people with a lexithymia because like
your coaches will and what they're gonna
tell you is that like you can
access your emotions through your body
too
so especially for men who are lexa
thymic
i would say that even if you can't feel
the emotion
you may feel stuff like in your body
like does that make sense to you
yes yes what do you feel in your body
right now like
that could be an emotion um
i have to think right
let me ask you this what do you feel in
your body when you go to bed at night
um warmth
what warm warmth
okay do you feel safe
yes relaxed okay so you do feel relaxed
like
how do you feel when you wake up in the
morning
tired
i don't know i can't really put myself
okay so so this is where like you know
when you feel the edge of an emotion
because you say you feel the edge of
them right when you feel that edge of
emotion
do you notice that you feel particular
things in your body at the same time
i don't really notice it okay so that's
something that you've got to pay
attention to so like the next time that
you feel at the edge of an emotion
i want you to pay attention to your body
and see if something is different in
your body
you may feel something like in your
stomach
you may feel something in your throat
you may feel something in your chest
you may feel like tension in your back
and that's gonna be
your like avenue into the emotion
yeah um that's something you can kind of
do
on your own but this is also something
that like if you work
you know with a trained professional it
can help so i think
this second thing a couple of other
things about alexa thymia is that like
you know when you do like coaching and
therapy like what's gonna happen is that
they're gonna be asking questions that
are gonna be bringing the emotion
up and so like during those times like
the blood flow to your emotional centers
of the brain is gonna be higher
and as you wake those parts up as you
learn how to feel those emotions
then it's gonna be like you're gonna
start to get the whole
range of them and so like i sort of
experienced this when i had kids because
my emotional circuitry like got more
active
and so then what happened is i started
like crying and stuff like all the time
like i didn't used to cry but now i like
cry all the time on stream
and so what i found is that i could feel
love more intensely
and i could also feel like sadness more
intensely and i'm not recommending that
you go out and have a child to fix this
problem but
you know like my point is that
essentially like if we look at our alexa
thymia
what happens is if we turn up the volume
on
our emotions we turn up the volume on
all of our emotions
and so then the next question is what
are the emotions that you're trying to
avoid
yeah what do you think
um loneliness but that's not emotion but
sure it is it is
sure
well that i guess right so like this is
where so now with what's happening
robin is that you're feeling lonely
and then you do certain things to push
the loneliness away
yeah yeah i know right and so as long as
that
cycle is going on you're not going to
feel much
because you're actually trying to not
feel
yeah but i'm kind of like addicted
so i can't stop you're damn right you're
addicted
so how do you get unaddicted right so
that's where like you've got to start by
facing that loneliness because as long
as long as you're afraid as long as the
loneliness controls you
and as long as you can't feel lonely
you're gonna be
addicted to this stuff and the more that
because because think about this why are
you addicted to it it's because you
can't
sit with being lonely
like it hurts so much to be lonely
you're like i can't feel that
i'm not gonna do it
and as long as you can't sit with the
loneliness then
you're gonna keep doing the thing
because that's your that's the way that
you
make the loneliness go away so of course
you're addicted
whether it's orgasms masturbation video
games netflix youtube whatever
it's all to run away from the loneliness
and if you want all of that stuff to
come crashing down
you have to sit with the loneliness
learn to be with the loneliness
if you can do that then you don't need
to play video games five hours a day
i also want to add like i will i'm
trying to become like a pro player
so it's hard to stop
gaming because of that also
okay i mean i i think that if you want
to be a successful
pro player you're going to have to deal
with the loneliness
how do i deal with the loneliness go see
a therapist
or you could do coaching too but i'd
really recommend therapy and
a clinical evaluation i can't really i
can't really afford
therapy
okay that's a tricky thing what country
are you in
sweden i thought it was free for you
guys
it is i think so i think until you're
20 it is
i would definitely check into that
you think it's not true or
what do you mean trick interest i i
would i would investigate
whether you actually have to pay for it
or if there's some way you can get it
for free
all right i would and and there are
usually like
even people who will in any country oh i
don't know about any country
but generally speaking in north america
and in europe
there are organizations that will offer
therapy for free
so you just have to find one of those
organizations i'm not
too sure but i think that there are
like organizations you can check out
rise above the disorder
which is a good organization i think
it's based in the united states i don't
know if they do things in europe but
i thought i thought sweden had
socialized medicine
i mean maybe they do i'm not i'm not
saying i'm just saying what i think
yeah so i would investigate that
because i i think the problem that
you're gonna face in the swedish
healthcare system
is that you're gonna have to wait a long
time to find a therapist
but it i think it should be free for you
also i think you have mentioned like
when you meditate and you get like a no
mind state that's when the emotional
emotions are like come up because you're
not suppressing them anymore
but i haven't really been successful
in getting there okay
so that's that's perfectly fine so i
would continue
practicing meditation and this is where
you may be able to find like a local
group
that you can join to like you know help
you meditate on a regular basis
and and you know if you haven't entered
if you haven't entered a no mind state
that's totally fine